docs/src/app/(docs)/react/components/preview-card/page.mdx, before:

# Preview Card

<Subtitle>
  A popup that appears when a link is hovered, showing a preview for sighted users.
</Subtitle>
<Meta
  name="description"
  content="A high-quality, unstyled React preview card component that appears when a link is hovered, showing a preview for sighted users."
/>

import { DemoPreviewCardHero } from './demos/hero';

<DemoPreviewCardHero />
<link
  as="image"
  rel="preload"
  href="https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1619615391095-dfa29e1672ef?q=80&w=448&h=300"
/>

## Anatomy

Import the component and assemble its parts:

```jsx title="Anatomy"
import { PreviewCard } from '@base-ui/react/preview-card';

<PreviewCard.Root>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger />
  <PreviewCard.Portal>
    <PreviewCard.Backdrop />
    <PreviewCard.Positioner>
      <PreviewCard.Popup>
        <PreviewCard.Arrow />
      </PreviewCard.Popup>
    </PreviewCard.Positioner>
  </PreviewCard.Portal>
</PreviewCard.Root>;
```

## Examples

### Detached triggers

A preview card can be controlled by a trigger located either inside or outside the `<PreviewCard.Root>` component.
For simple, one-off interactions, place the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` inside `<PreviewCard.Root>`, as shown in the example at the top of this page.

However, if defining the preview card's content next to its trigger is not practical, you can use a detached trigger.
This involves placing the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` outside of `<PreviewCard.Root>` and linking them with a `handle` created by the `PreviewCard.createHandle()` function.

```jsx title="Detached triggers" {3,5} "handle={demoPreviewCard}"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Link
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersSimple } from './demos/detached-triggers-simple';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersSimple />

### Multiple triggers

A single preview card can be opened by multiple trigger elements.
You can achieve this by using the same `handle` for several detached triggers, or by placing multiple `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` components inside a single `<PreviewCard.Root>`.

```jsx title="Multiple triggers within the Root part"
<PreviewCard.Root>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger href="#">Trigger 1</PreviewCard.Trigger>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger href="#">Trigger 2</PreviewCard.Trigger>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

```jsx title="Multiple detached triggers"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Trigger 1
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Trigger 2
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

The preview card can render different content depending on which trigger opened it.
This is achieved by passing a `payload` to the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` and using the function-as-a-child pattern in `<PreviewCard.Root>`.

The payload can be strongly typed by providing a type argument to the `createHandle()` function:

```jsx title="Detached triggers with payload" {1,3,7} "payload"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle<{ title: string }>();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} payload={{ title: 'Trigger 1' }} href="#">
  Trigger 1
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} payload={{ title: 'Trigger 2' }} href="#">
  Trigger 2
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  {({ payload }) => (
    <PreviewCard.Portal>
      <PreviewCard.Positioner sideOffset={8}>
        <PreviewCard.Popup>
          {payload !== undefined && (
            <span>
              Preview card opened by {payload.title}
            </span>
          )}
        </PreviewCard.Popup>
      </PreviewCard.Positioner>
    </PreviewCard.Portal>
  )}
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

### Controlled mode with multiple triggers

You can control the preview card's open state externally using the `open` and `onOpenChange` props on `<PreviewCard.Root>`.
This allows you to manage the preview card's visibility based on your application's state.
When using multiple triggers, you have to manage which trigger is active with the `triggerId` prop on `<PreviewCard.Root>` and the `id` prop on each `<PreviewCard.Trigger>`.

Note that there is no separate `onTriggerIdChange` prop.
Instead, the `onOpenChange` callback receives an additional argument, `eventDetails`, which contains the trigger element that initiated the state change.

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersControlled } from './demos/detached-triggers-controlled';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersControlled />

### Animating the Preview Card

You can animate a preview card as it moves between different trigger elements.
This includes animating its position, size, and content.

#### Position and Size

To animate the preview card's position, apply CSS transitions to the `left`, `right`, `top`, and `bottom` properties of the **Positioner** part.
To animate its size, transition the `width` and `height` of the **Popup** part.

#### Content

The preview card also supports content transitions.
This is useful when different triggers display different content within the same preview card.

To enable content animations, wrap the content in the `<PreviewCard.Viewport>` part.
This part provides features to create direction-aware animations.
It renders a `div` with a `data-activation-direction` attribute (`left`, `right`, `up`, or `down`) that indicates the new trigger's position relative to the previous one.

Inside the `<PreviewCard.Viewport>`, the content is further wrapped in `div`s with data attributes to help with styling:

- `data-current`: The currently visible content when no transitions are present or the incoming content.
- `data-previous`: The outgoing content during a transition.

You can use these attributes to style the enter and exit animations.

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersFull } from './demos/detached-triggers-full';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersFull />

## API reference

<Reference
  component="PreviewCard"
  parts="Root, Trigger, Portal, Backdrop, Positioner, Popup, Viewport, Arrow"
/>

export const metadata = {
  keywords: [
    'React Preview Card',
    'Preview Card Component',
    'Link Hover Preview',
    'Hover Card React',
    'Hover Card',
    'Link Tooltip',
    'URL Preview',
    'Link Preview Popup',
    'Content Preview',
    'Accessible Preview Popup',
    'Detached Trigger Preview Card',
    'Multiple Preview Card Triggers',
    'Animated Preview Card',
    'Headless React Components',
    'Link Preview UI',
    'Base UI',
  ],
};

Commit message:

[preview card][docs] Align docs link styling and usage guidance (#4176)

docs/src/app/(docs)/react/components/preview-card/page.mdx, after:

# Preview Card

<Subtitle>
  A popup that appears when a link is hovered, showing a preview for sighted users.
</Subtitle>
<Meta
  name="description"
  content="A high-quality, unstyled React preview card component that appears when a link is hovered, showing a preview for sighted users."
/>

import { DemoPreviewCardHero } from './demos/hero';

<DemoPreviewCardHero />
<link
  as="image"
  rel="preload"
  href="https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1619615391095-dfa29e1672ef?q=80&w=448&h=300"
/>

## Usage guidelines

- **Popup content should reflect the link destination**: Avoid placing unique or essential information in the popup unless it is also available on the linked page, so all users can access the same information. Preview cards are a visual enhancement for sighted mouse and keyboard users and are not accessible to touch or screen reader users.

## Anatomy

Import the component and assemble its parts:

```jsx title="Anatomy"
import { PreviewCard } from '@base-ui/react/preview-card';

<PreviewCard.Root>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger />
  <PreviewCard.Portal>
    <PreviewCard.Backdrop />
    <PreviewCard.Positioner>
      <PreviewCard.Popup>
        <PreviewCard.Arrow />
      </PreviewCard.Popup>
    </PreviewCard.Positioner>
  </PreviewCard.Portal>
</PreviewCard.Root>;
```

## Examples

### Detached triggers

A preview card can be controlled by a trigger located either inside or outside the `<PreviewCard.Root>` component.
For simple, one-off interactions, place the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` inside `<PreviewCard.Root>`, as shown in the example at the top of this page.

However, if defining the preview card's content next to its trigger is not practical, you can use a detached trigger.
This involves placing the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` outside of `<PreviewCard.Root>` and linking them with a `handle` created by the `PreviewCard.createHandle()` function.

```jsx title="Detached triggers" {3,5} "handle={demoPreviewCard}"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Link
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersSimple } from './demos/detached-triggers-simple';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersSimple />

### Multiple triggers

A single preview card can be opened by multiple trigger elements.
You can achieve this by using the same `handle` for several detached triggers, or by placing multiple `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` components inside a single `<PreviewCard.Root>`.

```jsx title="Multiple triggers within the Root part"
<PreviewCard.Root>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger href="#">Trigger 1</PreviewCard.Trigger>
  <PreviewCard.Trigger href="#">Trigger 2</PreviewCard.Trigger>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

```jsx title="Multiple detached triggers"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Trigger 1
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} href="#">
  Trigger 2
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  ...
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

The preview card can render different content depending on which trigger opened it.
This is achieved by passing a `payload` to the `<PreviewCard.Trigger>` and using the function-as-a-child pattern in `<PreviewCard.Root>`.

The payload can be strongly typed by providing a type argument to the `createHandle()` function:

```jsx title="Detached triggers with payload" {1,3,7} "payload"
const demoPreviewCard = PreviewCard.createHandle<{ title: string }>();

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} payload={{ title: 'Trigger 1' }} href="#">
  Trigger 1
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Trigger handle={demoPreviewCard} payload={{ title: 'Trigger 2' }} href="#">
  Trigger 2
</PreviewCard.Trigger>

<PreviewCard.Root handle={demoPreviewCard}>
  {({ payload }) => (
    <PreviewCard.Portal>
      <PreviewCard.Positioner sideOffset={8}>
        <PreviewCard.Popup>
          {payload !== undefined && (
            <span>
              Preview card opened by {payload.title}
            </span>
          )}
        </PreviewCard.Popup>
      </PreviewCard.Positioner>
    </PreviewCard.Portal>
  )}
</PreviewCard.Root>
```

### Controlled mode with multiple triggers

You can control the preview card's open state externally using the `open` and `onOpenChange` props on `<PreviewCard.Root>`.
This allows you to manage the preview card's visibility based on your application's state.
When using multiple triggers, you have to manage which trigger is active with the `triggerId` prop on `<PreviewCard.Root>` and the `id` prop on each `<PreviewCard.Trigger>`.

Note that there is no separate `onTriggerIdChange` prop.
Instead, the `onOpenChange` callback receives an additional argument, `eventDetails`, which contains the trigger element that initiated the state change.

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersControlled } from './demos/detached-triggers-controlled';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersControlled />

### Animating the Preview Card

You can animate a preview card as it moves between different trigger elements.
This includes animating its position, size, and content.

#### Position and Size

To animate the preview card's position, apply CSS transitions to the `left`, `right`, `top`, and `bottom` properties of the **Positioner** part.
To animate its size, transition the `width` and `height` of the **Popup** part.

#### Content

The preview card also supports content transitions.
This is useful when different triggers display different content within the same preview card.

To enable content animations, wrap the content in the `<PreviewCard.Viewport>` part.
This part provides features to create direction-aware animations.
It renders a `div` with a `data-activation-direction` attribute (`left`, `right`, `up`, or `down`) that indicates the new trigger's position relative to the previous one.

Inside the `<PreviewCard.Viewport>`, the content is further wrapped in `div`s with data attributes to help with styling:

- `data-current`: The currently visible content when no transitions are present or the incoming content.
- `data-previous`: The outgoing content during a transition.

You can use these attributes to style the enter and exit animations.

import { DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersFull } from './demos/detached-triggers-full';

<DemoPreviewCardDetachedTriggersFull />

## API reference

<Reference
  component="PreviewCard"
  parts="Root, Trigger, Portal, Backdrop, Positioner, Popup, Viewport, Arrow"
/>

export const metadata = {
  keywords: [
    'React Preview Card',
    'Preview Card Component',
    'Link Hover Preview',
    'Hover Card React',
    'Hover Card',
    'Link Tooltip',
    'URL Preview',
    'Link Preview Popup',
    'Content Preview',
    'Accessible Preview Popup',
    'Detached Trigger Preview Card',
    'Multiple Preview Card Triggers',
    'Animated Preview Card',
    'Headless React Components',
    'Link Preview UI',
    'Base UI',
  ],
};
