docs/src/app/(docs)/react/components/button/page.mdx, before:

# Button

<Subtitle>
  A button component that can be rendered as another tag or focusable when disabled.
</Subtitle>
<Meta
  name="description"
  content="A high-quality, unstyled React button component that can be rendered as another tag or focusable when disabled."
/>

import { DemoButtonHero } from './demos/hero';

<DemoButtonHero />

## Usage guidelines

- **Submit buttons**: Unlike the native button element, `type="submit"` must be specified on Button for it to act as a submit button.

## Anatomy

Import the component:

```jsx title="Anatomy"
import { Button } from '@base-ui/react/button';

<Button />;
```

## Examples

### Rendering as another tag

The button can remain keyboard accessible while being rendered as another tag, such as a `<div>`, by specifying `nativeButton={false}`.

```jsx title="Custom tag button" "nativeButton"
import { Button } from '@base-ui/react/button';

<Button render={<div />} nativeButton={false}>
  Button that can contain complex children
</Button>;
```

### Loading states

For buttons that enter a loading state after being clicked, specify the `focusableWhenDisabled` prop to ensure focus remains on the button when it becomes disabled. This prevents focus from being lost and maintains the tab order.

import { DemoButtonLoading } from './demos/loading';

<DemoButtonLoading compact />

## API reference

<Reference component="Button" />

export const metadata = {
  keywords: [
    'React Button',
    'Button Component',
    'Focusable Disabled Button',
    'Custom Element Button',
    'Clickable Element',
    'Action Button',
    'Submit Button',
    'Accessible Button',
    'Loading State Button',
    'Headless React Components',
    'Base UI',
  ],
};

Commit message:

[docs] Document button and link semantic conflict (#4163)

docs/src/app/(docs)/react/components/button/page.mdx, after:

# Button

<Subtitle>
  A button component that can be rendered as another tag or focusable when disabled.
</Subtitle>
<Meta
  name="description"
  content="A high-quality, unstyled React button component that can be rendered as another tag or focusable when disabled."
/>

import { DemoButtonHero } from './demos/hero';

<DemoButtonHero />

## Usage guidelines

- **Submit buttons**: Unlike the native button element, `type="submit"` must be specified on Button for it to act as a submit button.
- **Links**: The Button component enforces button semantics (`role="button"`, keyboard interaction, disabled state). It should not be used for links. See [Rendering links as buttons](#rendering-links-as-buttons) below.

## Anatomy

Import the component:

```jsx title="Anatomy"
import { Button } from '@base-ui/react/button';

<Button />;
```

## Examples

### Rendering as another tag

The button can remain keyboard accessible while being rendered as another tag, such as a `<div>`, by specifying `nativeButton={false}`.

```jsx title="Custom tag button" "nativeButton"
import { Button } from '@base-ui/react/button';

<Button render={<div />} nativeButton={false}>
  Button that can contain complex children
</Button>;
```

### Rendering links as buttons

The Button component enforces button semantics. `nativeButton={false}` signals that the rendered tag is not a `<button>`, but it must still be a tag that can receive button semantics (`role="button"`, keyboard interaction handlers). Links (`<a>`) have their own semantics and should not be rendered as buttons through the `render` prop.

If a link needs to look like a button visually, style the `<a>` element directly with CSS rather than using the Button component.

### Loading states

For buttons that enter a loading state after being clicked, specify the `focusableWhenDisabled` prop to ensure focus remains on the button when it becomes disabled. This prevents focus from being lost and maintains the tab order.

import { DemoButtonLoading } from './demos/loading';

<DemoButtonLoading compact />

## API reference

<Reference component="Button" />

export const metadata = {
  keywords: [
    'React Button',
    'Button Component',
    'Focusable Disabled Button',
    'Custom Element Button',
    'Clickable Element',
    'Action Button',
    'Submit Button',
    'Accessible Button',
    'Loading State Button',
    'Button as Link',
    'Link Button',
    'Headless React Components',
    'Base UI',
  ],
};
